Update docs for managing SNS (#1727)
dfinity/portal: docs/developer-docs/integrations/sns/managing/making-proposals.md

# SNS proposals

## Overview

> To manage an SNS, developers and community need to understand how proposals work, how they can be submitted, voted on, and what effect they have. This article explains the different types of proposals and how to work with them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manage an SNS, the SNS community needs to understand how proposals work, how they can be submitted, voted on, and what effect they have. This article explains the different types of proposals and how to work with them.
```
(at this point the devs are equal to other community members in teh view of the DAO, this is why I would maybe not single them out)

## Background

### Native proposals

An SNS comes with built-in proposals called “native proposals”.

There are the following types:

* `motion`
* `manage_nervous_system_parameters`
* `upgrade_sns_controlled_canister`
* `add_generic_nervous_system_function`
* `remove_generic_nervous_system_function`
* `execute_generic_nervous_system_function`
* `upgrade_sns_to_next_version`
* `manage_sns_metadata`
* `transfer_sns_treasury_funds`
* `register_dapp_canisters`
* `deregister_dapp_canisters`

:::info

> See the types in the code [here](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/dfinity/ic/-/blob/rs/sns/governance/proto/ic_sns_governance/pb/v1/governance.proto?L405) - they are called “action” in the code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the types in the code [here](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/dfinity/ic@4732d8281404c0a7c1e0a91937ffd0e54f2beced/-/blob/rs/sns/governance/proto/ic_sns_governance/pb/v1/governance.proto?L405) - they are called “action” in the code.
```
I recommend making this a permalink to mitigate weird linkage problems with the tip of master

:::

### Generic proposals

Each SNS community might have dapp-specific needs.

Some examples:

> * A dapp has a very complicated procedure to upgrade dapp canisters (as they have a canister for each user) which they orchestrate over a “user root canister”. For this they have to tell this canister what the user-canisters should be upgraded to and then trigger this upgrade. In a DAO-governed dapp this should happen via proposal.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* A dapp may have a very complicated procedure to upgrade dapp canisters. For example, they may have a canister for each user, in which case they orchestrate over a “user root canister”. For this workflow, they would have to tell this canister what the user-canisters should be upgraded to and then trigger this upgrade. In a DAO-governed dapp this should happen via proposal.
```

> * many dapps have an asset canister. Updating the assets cannot be done via a normal canister upgrade as the content is larger than a proposal can be. Therefore we need a custom way to update these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* many dapps have an asset canister. Updating the assets cannot be done via a normal canister upgrade as the content is larger than a proposal can be. Therefore we need a custom way to update the assets 
```
here we could also link to https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/integrations/sns/managing/sns-asset-canister for more information

> * many dapps have an asset canister. Updating the assets cannot be done via a normal canister upgrade as the content is larger than a proposal can be. Therefore we need a custom way to update the assets 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Many dapps have an asset canister. Updating the assets cannot be done via a normal canister upgrade as the content is larger than a proposal can be. Therefore we need a custom way to update the assets 
```

* Developers might want the DAO to be the only entity that can elect moderators, call certain methods, make certain payments etc…

> For all these cases SNSs have so called generic proposals. Basically those are custom proposals that each SNS community can define itself.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For these cases, SNSs have so called 'generic proposals'. These are custom proposals that each SNS community can define itself.
```

> Here we make use of an elegant cool aspect of our SNS architecture design: a proposal is just a call to a method on a canister. This means that one can do arbitrary things with a proposal as long as ones tell the SNS governance canister which method it has to call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we make use of an elegant cool aspect of our SNS architecture design: a proposal is just a call to a method on a canister. This means that one can do arbitrary things with a proposal as long as one can tell the SNS governance canister which method it has to call.
```

> Here we make use of an elegant cool aspect of our SNS architecture design: a proposal is just a call to a method on a canister. This means that one can do arbitrary things with a proposal as long as one can tell the SNS governance canister which method it has to call.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here we make use of an elegant aspect of our SNS architecture design: a proposal is just a call to a method on a canister. This means that one can do arbitrary things with a proposal as long as one can tell the SNS governance canister which method it has to call.
```
